Object Oriented Programming Lab (JAVA)
BCSE 2nd year 2nd Semester

Assignment – 2

1. Design a BankAcct class with account number, balance and interest rate as attribute.
Interest rate is same for all account. Support must be there to initialize, change and
display the interest rate. Also supports are to be there to return balance and calculate
interest.

2. Design a Metric class that supports Kilometre to Mile conversion with distance in
Kilometre as argument and Mile to Kilometre conversion with distance in mile as
argument. Assume, one Mile equals 1.5 Kilometre.

3. Take a String input that contains multiple words. Do the following: i) number of times ‘a’
appears ii) number of times “and” appears iii) whether it starts with “The” or not iv) put
the String into an array of characters v) display the tokens in the String (tokens are the
substrings separated by space or @ or .)

4. Consider a wrapper class for a numeric basic type. Check the support for the following:
conversion from i) basic type to object ii) object to basic type iii) basic type to String iv)
String (holding numeric data) to numeric object v) object to String.

5. Each customer of a bank has customer id, name, and current loan amount and phone
number. One can change the attributes like name, phone number. A customer may ask for
loan of certain amount. It is granted provided the sum of current loan amount and asked
amount does not exceed credit limit (fixed amount for all customer). A customer may be
a privileged amount. For such customers credit limit is higher. Once a loan is sanctioned
necessary updates should be made. Any type of customer should be able to find his credit
limit, current loan amount and amount of loan he can seek. Design and implement the
classes.

6. For every person in an institute details like name, address (consists of premises number,
street, city, pin and state), phone number, e-mail id are maintained. A person is either a
student or a faculty. For student roll number and course of study are also be maintained.
For faculty employee id, department and specialisation are to be stored. One should be
able to view the object details and set the attributes. For address, one may change it
partially depending on the choice. Design and implement the classes.